hello welcome to the weekly package
another sink the first one since we
became a special interest group and very
exciting news
so we're going to go through go around
the room since we would have done better
work on this I am taking brain of your
host for this meeting
can I have a note taker please thanks
Jen I will go first so I've been working
on lots of stuff that tastes like FS
less very much package manager focus but
working on me a simple way it changes
basically attached me relaxed and cool
streams that's done for the exporter
importers in progress and that's we're
going to trickle up to the EMA fest
which is kind of also done it's probably
gonna be me for the rest of the week
just you want to have any questions
about that no great pantry
hello so I had some fun this week I
wrote my first bit of rust and
contributed to the weapon package
manager' client to be able to add to
install a particular version of a thing
which is pretty cool that the original
client as it was published was very bare
and is and if I opened a few issues
asking for some features they've been
very responsive and then we had a call
with them on Thursday to discuss how to
add ipfs support to weapon and the
different levels of integration that
could happen which I then kind of turned
into an issue of like here's some of the
different stages or the ways you could
go about it which I'm planning on kind
of then delving in a little bit further
on stage one to literally like lay out
his some of the commands that you would
run either over HTTP API or a if you're
in the client like what API calls to
make to help them get tarballs
hosted on ipfs and then kind of 1.5 i
guess is thinking about how the client
can integrate possibly the Wacom
converted ipfs Lite which is a fairly
unknown like I guess beater and
basically trying to help support them
keep moving and get a fast feedback loop
of stuff so that nothing gets dropped as
if they go through also looked into the
Dino package manager or lack of one it
has some really interesting features
from a usability perspective but it
throws out loads of reproducibility
problems out there kind of as a
trade-off
that it feels like ipfs can I can help
but it doesn't feel like they want that
help right now so is a different I could
see Michaels just tend his video because
he has opinions or incited knowledge
they'll be interesting yeah I mean I
know Ryan really well and I've known him
through creating this and stuff and he
um yeah he he has really strong opinions
about package managers that basically
boil down to all the best practices that
we've designed over the last ten years
he doesn't like so I was like yeah I'm
necessarily bet on him agreeing with
these are like the problems that need
yeah so that that was kind of a similar
conclusion that I came to is there's
potentially still ways that ipfs could
kind of support it without being
directly integrated providing kind of a
proxy that caches and gives some form of
reproducibility guarantees of the the
URLs contents continuing to be returned
as the same thing and that also led to
some interesting conversations with Eric
but I think he's got a note to talk
about that in a minute and the other
thing that I have not done much further
work on is the ipfs concepts mapping
document but that is basically where I'm
drawing all of the weapon related kind
of documentation that I'm putting
together for them it's just focused on
their use case specifically which is a
database backed package manager to kind
of almost try it out to see how much I'm
missing so I'll be carrying on working
on that and that's about it Jessica
you
it would be helpful um so thank you for
the info about um gosh gosh continuing
to work on the concepts mapping stuff
because eventually I would like to take
a little bit of a stab at integrating
that into some of the work that I would
like to be doing eventually turning that
into something that's a little that's
that's more sort of public consumable
because I know that we've got that link
to in a related issue stuff that I have
been working on done or almost done
pinned it down some actual definite
package manager' related goals in my
work plan Molly I think you and I are
going to talk about that tomorrow which
is awesome and a couple of other things
that are not directly package manager
related but will happen for maybe some
of our research and testing
methodologies going forward which is
encouraging on a related note also took
some the notes on DPLA fest and the
workshop that we led there and sort of
pin that down into something that might
inform how we might want to lead a
package manager working session or
workshop session and i kfs camp if that
ends up being something that happens I
know that Molly you've got that is a
suggested workshop on the agenda I'm so
looking forward to seeing how that
shakes out and then the stuff I want to
be working on in the next couple of days
is um starting to work on user
segmentation for package manager users
guide tied to Andrew what you've put in
the pain points in issue 17 just using
that hierarchy is is our sort of means
that our user personas as it were and
trying to expand on that a little bit
and then also declining the
telemarketers spam call and working on
some initials sort of journey Malcolm
for mental about all ideas for those
segments as well so that would be not
the sort of thing that I get wrapped up
in a week but hope
to dig into that more definitely
starting now
Eric you're next in the dock so I hosted
some of the documentation that we talked
about last week so that's an issue now
to go live there that cladistic tree
thing I still feel like there's so many
different ways that could go like a
feather on the end of it like it just
got up to the point where we discuss
what decentralized authorship would look
like I'm gonna stop right there so I'd
love to see somebody take that and run
with it someday
another conversation that I had with
Andrew that he alluded to this week is
trying to understand some more of the
different perspectives that you can come
up with when you look at package
management when it's done distro scale
like Linux distro style because we've
spent a lot of time so far focusing on
like what is it like for NPM or for like
good modules or any of these other
things which are very focused on getting
the story figured out for package
management in the scope of producing a
particular project so all these concepts
like a lot files and stuff are all
buried but basically comes with the idea
that you've got this one repo probably
is on github and it's gonna produce like
one thing and that's the package
management that we're talking about and
in distress just resembles something
totally different and like other
interesting concepts that those people
in user stories care about that single
project package management just like
doesn't have or vice versa and the
answer is like yes probably so one thing
that we talked about in particular is
like version selection algorithms may
vary depending on your perspectives this
is something that isn't common in
language level package managers like
they might have ways to express version
constraints but the small brown rhythm
itself is like pretty fixed and by
contrast something we might like to do
if we were thinking about like distro
scale like really big ecosystem
management is what if we have a whole
bunch of projects and one
the constraints we wanted to solve for
was if all of these things have a
particular library dependency but all
these things to put on - or something
we don't care about anyone's particular
version constraints quite so much as we
care about reducing the total number of
distinct versions selected by weight
aggregate group I don't know if there's
a lot of literature about this and it's
just kind of a thought that's great so
like maybe something about that is worth
just a quick note in the papers that
I've read about Paul a wild all he's in
the room is the papers I've read about
package round room or almost always have
kind of a distinct angle very rarely
cross between say distro package
managers and application level package
managers so this this potential into
ding areas of kind of research of the
crossover or lack of crossover as as
Eric mentioned there that as haven't
seen but I may do another troll of the
of the published papers to see if
there's anything else interesting there
I think or something in in chatting with
Stephen and we were kind of brainstorm
and all these different who ski says
things like big big Linux builds like
downloading all of Ubuntu and stuff like
a different characteristic in terms of
size and so the cost of say downloading
the same Linux builds on 20 machines in
a computer cluster or no other scenarios
we're getting this sort of builds into
an environment that is relatively
internet or bandwidth constrained starts
to have like pretty significant impact
of the sort of deduplication and
overhead and peer-to-peer bandwidth
direction that ipfs could could bring
yeah in scientific high-performance
computing with Linux it's typically
that's a core there's a usually
something in the cluster that you know
has a copy of all the repos and things
and so that that's actually a place you
can search for a lot of prior art for
this sort of thing because it's it kills
you if you have to five hundred nine
cluster you're not going to download the
same packages five hundred times off the
internet
you
I'm gonna talk
I dropped another note I've got a
similar thing in in our shared pad
there's the project from uber called
crackin that's about distributing with
docker images inside of a cluster I
forget if we can mention em before but
it's an interesting example that we were
just talking about like it's not exactly
that they're been with constraints just
that they absolutely know they're doing
the same thing repeatedly and so it
makes a lot of sense to try to like turn
this into a small operation they have
some interesting docs on that do
which is you wanna keep your update okay
yeah so as in the the the in web
browsers meeting and we're talking about
web package and then we're all talking
about hey you know this package managers
is the focus but it's like web package
like like what Google is doing in chrome
is they're taking websites and attorney
websites into packages so it's sort of
funny because it's like a crossover with
what we're doing here so with the with
the HTTP signed exchanged things we're
essentially taking a bunch of what's a
website putting into essentially the
exact same format that you would
distribute software in and I think
there's a lot of overlap there so but
it's interesting is like this web
package things only been out for a few
months and there's no real concept like
that if there's a package manager in
that it's basically what what Google is
doing with their with amp so
I I think it actually breaks down the
exact same way and I don't think
anybody's really thought about it yet
you
there's a interesting hook back in there
to Dino as well Jim that if you just
treat your
packages as URLs that if you can if you
can get them to work in a similar way
and you're acting like a web browser
then perhaps you can be like oh you can
fetch this from anywhere as long as it
is correctly signed which gets pretty
close to ipfs style thing
maybe Dino would go for HTTP signed
exchanges which is part of Chrome and it
just be like oh and they happen to be an
IP FS
you know exists in this weird place
where they're automatically translating
stuff in typescript and so it's just not
going to mesh very well with like all of
these newer style important module
techniques that need only a browser and
only something like signed exchanges
because there there's always this
compile step in between so it's like I
don't want spend too much time trying to
do you know there's like not really
anybody using it yet and yeah there's
it's inherently problematic so we can
just nudge them in the right direction
I've been nothing Ryan in directions for
over a decade and it doesn't work okay
reckons gonna do what he wants to do
Ryan spent two years writing a NPM for
C++ because C++ 11 was going to be
bigger than JavaScript so like and you
know I didn't talk him out of that so I
doubt that I can talk about anything
he's saying we need to insect him
okay you know the platforms we were all
using there was some progress on the fur
coat a PR said cats called back and said
you know how does the performance
compared so I ran some basic performance
analysis like so putting the talk about
having a tavola on your local nude
already putting in from one on the
network pulling it from remote like a
native be wasted server that you can put
direct selection tool and then pulling
it from the DHT and put the members up
there and it's basically it's about you
know it should tend to be the same kind
of speed as the kit I can I skip was
doing like installing directly from go
but all those things you know the things
that we need to ipfs to do in order to
all parties manages this speed my
density you know and my speed is
definitely the first thing everyone asks
why and it's gonna be the crux of this
this PR
that kind of goes back to kind of the
work kind of a cladistic tree and and
the like the different layers of package
minute and stuff like what what do you
need for layer one to be effective well
you needed to be fast because content
store you're fetching content like what
do you need for layer two alright now
you're trying to like mirror registries
and have your index and then you know
layer three yeah decentralized
publishing some amount of identity flows
into there I think question mark to us
is like having having a couple of
flavors of each of these would be really
interesting to like compete against each
other of like how much is necessary in
order to get something that could even
possibly function and how much is ideal
in order to make something that's like
really really you know fits everyone's
mental model in the package manager'
worlds and we can you know when we have
like stages within each of the stages we
started getting to go really like more
detailed picture where we can figure out
like where's the optimal balance further
for us to push on I mean it's gonna be
speed right and it's speed elapsed could
you kill every conversation difficult
yeah it's cool but it's like three times
as slow as the existing transpose a yeah
but it works offline by default yeah I
feel obliged to actually push back on
that ever so slightly I have a bunch of
use cases and reproducible builds where
I don't actually give a about
passages at all I care that it's
reliable and I care that it gives me an
integrity guarantee without pushing
further work up to higher levels of my
stack it's fast that's nice but it's
actually I can wait for speed
optimizations to come down the pipe
later I mean it depends on where the
speeds bottlenecks are though right like
I think that you know if they're
bottlenecks that are like a lot of them
get solved with a bigger cache state
then you can imagine a lot of these
cases where like these performance like
trade-offs kind of go away given enough
time and enough cash name but if it's
littered if it's not really affected by
cache data if it's you know just
inherently like you know the way that
we're actually encoding the files or you
know like our encoder decoders slow like
that's not going to go away right like
all the work that we've been doing to
like make the encoder and decoder stuff
faster like that's that's obviously
going to have a benefit no matter what
right so late so it's interesting
because I can concretely imagine an
application where for example the IP NS
resolved speed I just don't care because
what I want instead is the snapshot of
the index by a specific cid already so
like IP NS just don't care and maybe
then I care about the speed of the
diffuse mount but instead I might have
some of these case where I can like I'm
doing reproducible builds like literally
I'm going to build the same thing
repeatedly right so I can just copy
files out of the fuse mount onto a
standard amount of whatever other
performance characteristics my
underlying disks have and I can cache
that by the CID which I've already got
because the system is nice and so I
don't care about the speed of that
either
like I can immunize myself to a lot of
this stuff if at a super high level I
happen to have the the cool selection
algorithms figured out cuz I'm doing a
distro scale stuff and I try to make
sure that I'm using the minimum spanning
selection of unnecessarily different
versions of some package then that just
increases my cache a way for all these
other things that annoys me against not
about speed of the transport so if I
take all those together yeah I get rid
of a lot of the speed constraints in
such an application yeah um one thing I
want to make sure to note real quick so
in q3 I kind of expect to at least get
started if not have some some stuff to
some usable work on larger graph
mutation api's so for taking like a a
bulk chain set to to a large piece of
data or or like you know if we want to
take the last 10 seconds of MDM activity
and an update like you know the whole
graph for all of them game or whatever
it's just much more efficient to do
those in batch operations and we're
going to write api's to make that a lot
better that caches that they're going to
be built on top of the data model layer
so it's not going to work with dag DB
and it won't work with the old D
initiative so we need to make sure that
we're upgrading to the new UNIX FS in
order to get any of these like future
performance benefits out of stuff like
that good thing that's on both go and
Jaso kr so the quarter yeah and in fact
like in my opinion like all of the NFS
should come into like a big mutex and
you should just do all of your pending
operations and then batch them until
they're done and then batch the next set
like that would just make everything
inherently faster that's how like a lot
of data bases actually work when they
have like big block states they're just
like okay well while I'm waiting for
things to update I just batch all the
rest of the updates and then I can do
the next batch of updates quicker once
that returns like that is that is
probably how NFS should work like at
some point in the future using some of
these new tools that we're building I
guess where
but just really quick for anyone who's
on this call who isn't on our we can now
have a shared slack channel with the
Waze mer folks who are building Lapham
and I think recap from the call like I
think it went super well they're like
really excited they're like great we're
gonna like start integrating ipfs into
our data like our content store layer
like in a week now like a week from now
which is awesome and super exciting and
so definitely like work on our plate to
make sure they have like a super great
experience and also to learn from this
because you know the end goal is not a
single package manager who has this it's
you know understanding the pain points
that folks run into and solving them not
just for package managers but for all
these other use cases and so I think a
lot of a lot of things like having a
fast channel with them and quickly
understanding like where they're heading
both from a design space from like a
technical space from like an emotional
space like where they would tend to go
and what what sort of information is
really valuable to them all of that I
think we're gonna learn a ton but
they're just one group so I think also
folks keeping their eyes out for other
groups that would be similarly excited
and motivated to take this on because
we'll learn different things and that
will all be very useful for us
this has been the package my a special
interest group in Easton hello for this
week I will see you all on the Internet
okay bye